# Credentials

**Contributors**: RB, DM

**Theme**: Our philosophy is to build mechanisms that allow the developer to tune the extent to which the system behaves fully decentralized or localized.

**Motivation**: A grants B a credential (delegated authority); A then wants to revoke the credential but B can still use it to gain access to C.

*   Credentials are either irrevocable (with expiry) or have localized authority (e.g., need to be checked with long-running bot or (W3C) [verifiable data registry](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#dfn-verifiable-data-registries)).
    (Registries may weaken confidentiality.)
*   The issuing authority may be an Agent or a sovereign ECHO Space that delegates authority to Agents.
*   Agents may "honour" certain kinds of credentials immediately -- or check with a quorum of other Agents (within the Space), or consult a localized Authority (e.g., Bot).
*   A Timeframe is an "checkpoint" (e.g., hash) that can be used to anchor that state of the space at a specific time.
*   The Space provides consensus for the state of credentials with some notion of finality.
*   When a specific number of Agents vote on a particular Epoch it becomes finalized and therefore a canonical source of truth for the validity of a credential (within a pre-determined window of time).
*   Verifiable data registries must be censorship resistent (e.g., cannot withhold revocations) and have predictable availability and finality (i.e., have guarantees about the "liveness" of its records).
*   Spaces have Policies that determine how credential verification is performed (i.e., which verifiers are used).

```yaml
@type: Credential
issuer: 0xAlice
expiry: nil
registries:
  - name: 0xdeadbeef          # Self-sovereign space (with Agent voting on Epochs).
    id: did:dxos:0xAlice
  - name: org/dxos            # Localized system (e.g., own bot running on KUBE).
    id: did:dxos:0xAlice
  - name: ipfs                # Decentralized (trustless but low availability/finality guarantees)
    id: did:dxos:0xAlice
  - name: keybase.com         # Centralized system (trusted with high availability/finality)
    id: alice
  - name: twitter.com         # Centralized system (trusted with low-resolution storage)
    id: alice
```

**Examples**

*   Participating public HALO credential registries provide the entire credential chain.
*   Non-participating public anchors (e.g., Ethereum, Twitter) can be used to provide trust anchors. E.g., to revoke a credential, write a revocation message to the Space (authority) then publish the Timeframe to Twitter. Agents verify the credential by querying twitter for the latest timeframe then wait until their Space is up-to-date with this epoch (i.e., processing any potential revocation).

