---
title: 'DXOS Privacy Policy'
description: 'DXOS Privacy Policy'
---

## Summary

DXOS provides developers with everything they need to build real-time, collaborative apps which run entirely on the client, and communicate peer-to-peer, without servers. Our database architecture replicates user-created content peer-to-peer, so all user-created content never is stored on servers or cloud storage.

To make our products and SDK better, DXOS collects app and platform observability data. This Privacy Policy outlines how we collect, use, and protect this data when you use our software, website, and platform. We are committed to ensuring the privacy and security of your personal information.

## What information do we collect?

DXOS collects app and platform observability data for the sole purpose of making our products and SDK better. You can opt-out of the collection of this data in our applications and CLI.

We collect information when you:

- Visit our website and documentation
- Use [Composer](https://dxos.org/composer)
- Use our CLI to [develop applications using the DXOS SDK](https://docs.dxos.org/guide/cli)

We collect the following information:

- A randomized ID that is generated when you first use Composer or install the CLI
- Performance and reliability metrics, such as memory usage, peer network connections, and number/size of documents
- Information about your device and environment, such as the operating system, browser, and location based on IP address
- Error logs and diagnostics

## How do we collect this information?

App and platform observability data is collected using the DXOS SDK, which uses third party providers to store and process the data. Data generated by website visits is collected automatically when you visit our websites through the use of various technologies, such as cookies and request headers.

User identity and user-generated content are not collected and do not reach our servers or providers.

## Where is the data stored and processed? How is it protected?

The data collected is stored on our servers and our providers:

- We use Digital Ocean for serving our website and documentation and providing peer to peer infrastructure
- We use Segment to receive telemetry data from our applications and CLI
- We use Sentry to capture error logs when things don't go as planned
- We use Datadog to record performance and reliability metrics, and to monitor our infrastructure

We take reasonable measures to protect your information from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure. However, no Internet transmission is entirely secure, and we cannot guarantee the security of your information.

We do not sell or rent your personal information to third parties.

## Changes to This Privacy Policy

We're continuing to shape and improve our applications and SDK, with your user privacy and security in mind.

We may update this Privacy Policy from time to time. Changes to the policy will be be made to this page and will be effective upon publication of the changes.

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us at [**privacy@dxos.org**](mailto:privacy@dxos.org).
